#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{kappa-sd-with-name}

\titletag{Submission}
\makeatletter
\titlerunning{\@title}
\makeatother
\authorrunning{Jonas Moss}

\usepackage{booktabs}
\renewcommand{\sqrt}[1]{{(#1)^{1/2}}}
\DeclareMathOperator{\tr}{tr}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Tr}{Tr}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Var}{Var}
\DeclareMathOperator{\sd}{sd}
\DeclareMathOperator{\argmin}{argmin}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Cor}{Cor}
\DeclareMathOperator{\Cov}{Cov}
\DeclareMathOperator{\diag}{diag} 
\DeclareMathOperator{\se}{se} 
\DeclareMathOperator{\argmax}{argmax}
\DeclareMathOperator{\artanh}{artanh}
\DeclareMathOperator{\supp}{supp}

\usepackage{enumitem}
\setlist[enumerate]{label = (\roman*)}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
natbibapa
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style apacite
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Measures of agreement with multiple raters: Fréchet variances and inference
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Jonas Moss 
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
orcid{0000-0002-6876-6964}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Department of Data Science and Analytics
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

BI Norwegian Business School
\emph on

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

jonas.moss@bi.no
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Most measures of agreement are chance-corrected.
 They differ in three dimensions: their definition of chance agreement,
 their choice of disagreement function, and how they handle multiple raters.
 Chance agreement is usually defined in a pairwise manner, following either
 Cohen's kappa or Fleiss's kappa.
 The disagreement function is usually a nominal, quadratic, or absolute
 value function.
 But how to handle multiple raters is contentious, with the main contenders
 being Fleiss's kappa, Conger's kappa, and Hubert's kappa, the variant of
 Fleiss's kappa where agreement is said to occur only if every rater agrees.
 More generally, multi-rater agreement coefficients can be defined in a
 
\begin_inset Formula $g$
\end_inset

-wise way, where the disagreement weighting function uses 
\begin_inset Formula $g$
\end_inset

 raters instead of two.
 This paper contains two main contributions.
 (a) We propose using Fréchet variances to handle the case of multiple raters.
 The Fréchet variances are intuitive disagreement measures and turn out
 to generalize the nominal, quadratic, and absolute value functions to the
 case of more than two raters.
 (b) We derive the limit theory of $g$-wise weighted agreement coefficients,
 with chance agreement of the Cohen-type or Fleiss-type, for the case where
 every item is rated by the same number of raters.
 Trying out three confidence interval constructions, we end up recommending
 calculating confidence intervals using the arcsine transform or the Fisher
 transform.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\series bold
Keywords
\series default
: agreement, interrater reliability, AC1, Cohen kappa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\series bold
Running title:
\series default
 Inference for measures of agreement with multiple raters
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate

\series bold
Data availability:
\series default
 Data sharing not applicable – no new data generated
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
